Embarking on the journey of a programming class has been a transformative experience, pushing the boundaries of my understanding and skills in the vast realm of coding. I had no prior experience in coding or programming, I didn't even know what it was and how it even looked before beginning the class.The syntax and logic of coding languages appeared as an intricate puzzle, full of complexity. Terms like variables, loops, and functions seemed like a foreign language, and debugging was an enigma.As I reflect on the progress I have made since the beginning, it is evident that my comprehension of programming concepts and my ability to apply them have grown significantly. The initial challenges were met with a sense of curiosity and determination. The structured curriculum and hands-on exercises made me challenge myself and kept me trying and trying, until I understood what I was actually doing and why. The project I am the most proud of is my sewing simulation. I started with no idea of what I wanted to do, but fashion and design are what I am the most interested in so my teacher pushed me in this direction. Once I established that I wanted to create a simulation, my challenge was to do one small step at a time, because I get very overwhelmed thinking about everything that has to be done and thinking about how to achieve everything, I learned to just start with small victories, to go in chronological order and to actually sit there and think for a little bit before running for help. That is what truely made me learn. I had all the tools necesseray from the class materials to create this simulation, I just had to think about how to use those tools in an efficient way. I put a lot of thoughts and tears and anger in this project. I sat in front of my computer for hours trying to debug my code or trying to understand how to make some elements work. Because it is mostly based on users choices and that the final result at the end may very everytime someone plays the game, my true hero were the booleans. I never truly used booleans before, and frankly I didnt really know why they were useful, until this project. Now they tend to be the first thing I think about using when I code. Before embarking in my coding and programming journey, I had no idea what to expect and I was afraid I wasn't going to understand and that it would be too hard for me, but I am very proud of everything I have accomplished in this class and now I know all I need to do is persevere, because I am not the same programmer I was in september when I started than I am now, and I have so much more to learn, but now, instead of being scared, I am excited !
